What is kubernetes?

Manages containers apps @ large scale including :
cluster management, scheduling, service discovery monitoring, SECRETS management & more

Born @ Google and they donated to CNCF.

BORG - container manager of google.inc
Kubernetes is default COE in google cloud.



						KUBERNETES ARCHITECTURE :

1. High-level overview
2. Kubernetes Master
3. Worker Node
4. Kubernetes architecture
5. Terminology


1. High Level : 
 
Kubernetes arch. consists of atleast one master node and multiple worker nodes.
Kubernetes supports upto 5000 worker nodes per cluster.

Nodes are also called as minions. 

	POD - Scheduling unit in k8s
Each pod consists of 1 or more containers.
Manage container through pods.

	Master - responsible for managing whole cluster.
monitors health chck of nodes.
if worker fails , it manages to switch to healthy node.


	Kubernetes Master 
Co-ordinates with all the nodes and keep your application running.

4 Primary Components : 
	1. API server: Kind of gatekeeper for entire cluster. If you want you to CRUD any k8s object , it has to go through API server.
It validates the API calls from pods, replicn controller , deployments 
Exposes API's for various operation.
Kubectl is used to interact with API server to perform operations.

	2. Schedular: Physically scheduling pods across various nodes.
Depending on how you mention in file.

	3. Control manager : Node, Replication , endpoint and Service account and token controller.
Responsible for health of applications. Ensures that appln is running.

	4. ETCD: Distributed key-value database
Stores current cluster state at any time.
All components can contact to state of the cluster 

	Kubernetes Worker Node
Every node must run any container runtime such as docker or rocket.

	1. Kubelet: Primary agent that runs on each worker node inside cluster.
It ensures that the pod mntion in podspec is healthy and running .
In case if it notices that there is issue , it tries to restart the pod on the same node.

	2. Kube-proxy: Responsible for maintaining internet n/wk config.
Also exposes services to the outside world. It's core network component inside k8s.

	3. Pods: Consists of 1 or more container.
We can deploy multiple dependant container .

	4. Containers: Provide runtime env. for application to run .
Dsined to run microservices applicn.